Git Requirement

Save all programming work in your existing Git repository.

What to do
	1.	Open the Git repository you already use for class.
	2.	Create a folder for this assignment.

mkdir inheritance_assignment

	3.	Save your Python files in that folder.
	4.	Add and commit your work after each exercise.

Example:Part 2: Warm-Up Questions

Answer these questions.
	1.	What is the difference between a class and an object? a class is like a catagory an object is variables defined with classes
	2.	Why is inheritance useful in programming? when classes need similar methods to another class
	3.	What does self mean inside a Python class? self is basically a variable that we dont know the name
	4.	What happens when a child class inherits from a parent class? the child class gets all methods from the parent class
Part 3: Read the Example

Study this program.
class Animal:
    def __init__(self, name, sound):
        self.name = name
        self.sound = sound

    def speak(self):
        print(self.name + " says " + self.sound)


class Dog(Animal):
    def fetch(self):
        print(self.name + " is fetching a ball.")


pet1 = Animal("Creature", "???")
pet2 = Dog("Buddy", "Woof")

pet1.speak()
pet2.speak()
pet2.fetch()

Questions
	1.	What is the name of the parent class? Animal
	2.	What is the name of the child class? Dog
	3.	Which attributes does Dog inherit from Animal? name and sound
	4.	Which method does Dog inherit from Animal? __init__ and speak methods
	5.	Which method belongs only to Dog? fetch
	6.	What will the program print? "Creature says ???" "Buddy says Woof" "Buddy is fetching a ball."
	
Part 4: Coding Practice

For each exercise:
	•	write the program in Python
	•	test it
	•	save it in your existing Git repository
	•	commit your work after completing each exercise

Exercise 1: Create a Class

Create a class called Book.

Requirements:
	•	attributes: title, author, pages
	•	method: describe() that prints information about the book
	
Example output:

Title: Hatchet, Author: Gary Paulsen, Pages: 195

After writing the class:
	•	create two Book objects
	•	call describe() for both objects

Suggested file name:

book_class.py

Questions
	1.	What is the class name? Book
	2.	What are the attributes? title, author, and pages
	3.	How many objects did you create? 2

Exercise 2: Create a Parent and Child Class

Create a parent class called Vehicle.

Requirements:
	•	attributes: brand, speed
	•	method: show_info() that prints the brand and speed

Then create a child class called Car that inherits from Vehicle.

Extra requirement for Car:
	•	add an attribute called doors
	•	add a method called honk() that prints "Beep beep!"

After writing the classes:
	•	create one Vehicle object
	•	create one Car object
	•	call the methods
	
Suggested file name:

vehicle_inheritance.py

Questions
	1.	Which class is the parent class? Vehicle
	2.	Which class is the child class? Car
	3.	What does Car inherit from Vehicle? show_info() method
	4.	What is new in the Car class? doors attribute and honk() method

Exercise 3: Override a Method

Create a parent class called Person.

Requirements:
	•	attribute: name
	•	method: introduce() that prints
"Hi, my name is [name]."

Create a child class called Student that inherits from Person.

Requirements for Student:
	•	add an attribute called grade_level
	•	override introduce() so it prints
"Hi, my name is [name], and I am in grade [grade_level]."

After writing the classes:
	•	create one Person object
	•	create one Student object
	•	call introduce() for both
	
Suggested file name:

person_student.py

Questions
	1.	What does it mean to override a method? replace the code
	2.	Which version of introduce() runs for a Student object? the one that prints both name and grade
	3.	Why might a programmer want to override a method? if changes need to happen for certain child classes

Part 5: Main Assignment

Write a program that uses inheritance with a school theme.

Step 1: Create a Parent Class

Create a class called SchoolMember.

Requirements:
	•	attributes:
	•	name
	•	age
	•	method:
	•	display_info() prints the person’s name and age

Step 2: Create Two Child Classes

Create these child classes:

Teacher
Additional attribute:
	•	subject

Additional method:
	•	teach() prints a message such as
"Mr. Lee is teaching math."

Student
Additional attribute:
	•	grade

Additional method:
	•	study() prints a message such as
"Ava is studying for grade 10 classes."

Step 3: Override a Method

Both Teacher and Student should override display_info().

Example:
	•	Teacher version might print:
"Teacher: Mr. Lee, Age: 35, Subject: Math"
	•	Student version might print:
"Student: Ava, Age: 16, Grade: 10"

Step 4: Create Objects

Create:
	•	at least 1 Teacher
	•	at least 2 Student objects

Call:
	•	display_info()
	•	teach() for the teacher
	•	study() for each student

Suggested file name:

school_members.py

Part 7: Challenge Problem

Create another child class called Principal that also inherits from SchoolMember.

Requirements:
	•	extra attribute: years_experience
	•	method: lead() that prints a leadership message
	•	override display_info()

Example:
Principal: Dr. Brown, Age: 50, Experience: 22 years

You may save this in:

principal_extension.py

Commit it to your Git repository when finished.

Submission Instructions

Submit:
	1.	Your written answers in your existing Git repository
	2.	Your Python files in your existing Git repository
	3.	Evidence of commits from your repository


